[RF-DOCS] Action Mailer Guide [ci-skip] (#52905)
rails/rails: guides/source/action_mailer_basics.md

Action Mailer Basics
====================

This guide covers sending emails from your Rails application.

After reading this guide, you will know:

* How to generate and edit Action Mailer classes and mailer views.
* How to send attachments and multipart emails.
* How to use Action Mailer callbacks.
* How to configure Action Mailer for your environment.
* How to preview emails and test your Action Mailer classes.

> 

Author: Todo: add something about CustomDeliveryJob https://x.com/rails/status/1834324357088481381

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is Action Mailer?
----------------------

> Action Mailer allows you to send emails from your Rails application. It's one of the two email related components in the Rails framework. Action Mailer, which is for sending emails and [Action Mailbox](action_mailbox_basics.html), which deals with receiving emails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Action Mailer allows you to send emails from your Rails application. It's one of two email-related components in the Rails framework: 

1. Action Mailer, for sending emails
2. [Action Mailbox](action_mailbox_basics.html), for receiving emails
```

Reviewer: Small suggestion to make the two components ultra clear

Author: updated

content, similar to controllers. While a controller generates HTML content to
send back to the client, a Mailer creates a message to be delivered via email.

Let's add a method called `welcome_email` to the `UserMailer`, that will send an
email to the user's registered email address:

```ruby
class UserMailer < ApplicationMailer
  default from: "notifications@example.com"

  def welcome_email
    @user = params[:user]
    @url  = "http://example.com/login"
    mail(to: @user.email, subject: "Welcome to My Awesome Site")
  end
end
```

NOTE: The method names in mailers do not have to end in `_email`.

Here is a quick explanation of the Mailer related methods used above:

* The [`default`][] method sets default values for all emails sent from _this_
  mailer. In this case, we use it to set the `:from` header value for all
  messages in this class. This can be overridden on a per-email basis.
* The [`mail`][] method creates the actual email message. We use it to specify
  the values of headers like `:to` and `:subject` per email.

There is also the [`headers`][] method (not used above), which is used to
specify email headers with a hash or by calling `headers[:field_name] =

> 'value'`.

Author: I made a note to look at the generator code to and see if I remove linebreaks from single backticks codeblocks.

end
```

A method like `weekly_summary` from `UserMailer` would return an
[`ActionMailer::MessageDelivery`][] object, which has the methods `deliver_now`
or `deliver_later` to send itself now or later. The
`ActionMailer::MessageDelivery` object is a wrapper around a
[`Mail::Message`][]. If you want to inspect, alter, or do anything else with the
`Mail::Message` object you can access it with the [`message`][] method on the
`ActionMailer::MessageDelivery` object.

Here is an example of the `MessageDelivery` object from the Rails console
example above:

```

> UserMailer.with(user: user).weekly_summary

Author: Updated. Linter was complaining about the object syntax before but seems okay now.

will automatically send multipart emails if you have different templates for the
same action. For example, if you have a `UserMailer` with
`welcome_email.text.erb` and `welcome_email.html.erb` in
`app/views/user_mailer`, Action Mailer will automatically send a multipart email
with both the HTML and text versions included as separate parts.

The [Mail](https://github.com/mikel/mail) gem has helper methods for making a
`multipart/alternate` email for `text/plain` and `text/html` [MIME
types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types)
and you can manually create any other type of MIME email.

NOTE: The order of the parts getting inserted is determined by the
`:parts_order` inside of the `ActionMailer::Base.default` method.

Multipart is also used when you send attachments with email. The `multipart`
MIME type represents a document that's comprised of multiple component parts,
each of which may have its own individual MIME type, such as the `text/html` and
`text/text` parts above. The use of `multipart` type is to encapsulate multiple
files being sent together in one transaction, such as when attaching multiple

> files to an email.

Author: Moved and updated and reworded this a bit.
